# Week 1: 23/02/21 
Upon reflection, it has been observed that there were many things that were learnt.That included the literal definition of a system and what was not a system. Alongside, the definitions and the differences of Complex Adaptive Systems and Complex systems. In relation to our social world and everyday lives, I have gained a deeper insight into how complex our human world is and how much our world revolves around a system. In general, anything that functions was considered a system as I personally use the word system as a catch-all phrase. After the lesson, my understanding of systems was enhanced as I understand that it is a relationship between groups of composed that are arranged in a particular way to perform a particular function. An example I now understand is a business department and how that creates a system. As such a business department is a system due to its element of Research and development, accounting, production, sales and more that interconnect as a function such as produce a good or service. Whereas, a group of people waiting at the train station are not a system as they are not designed to work together.For us people, students in university like me putting an effort to graduate is a common goal contributing to a complex adaptive system. Hence, I now understand the importance of how systems bring out the brainpower of the people involve and that it is vital in the evolution of a situation and identifying patterns of behaviours over time. 

A challenged I had encountered for this weak was starting up University and having a 3-hour workshop for this subject. This 3-hour workshop was quite difficult to focus on the whole zoom call. Hence, it was hard to understand the concept. 

This module enabled me to have a better thinking mindset for future activities. As such it showcased how viewing a function as a system in-depth enabled the understanding of the evolution and identifying patterns of behaviours over time.The theory of seeing functions as a complex system outlines the importance of systems for learning as it brings out the brainpower of people involved while providing effective structure and supporting the interest of delivering better results. 

# Week 2: 2/03/21 
Upon reflection, it was observed how complex and diverse the world is. As such, we discussed how huamns,companies, governments and their behaviours produced a novel. The in-depth learning of different type of models unveiled that people who utilise models consistently outperform those who don’t. 

Initially, I have never heard of the different types of models and how important they were in our everyday life. Hence, an insight I gained was how useful the utilisation of models was in assisting in making us better thinkers, to better organise information and to better make sense of different situations. It provided me with an opportunity to make better decisions such as figuring out the chances of winning a game through the use of models. The models improve our abilities to make accurate forecasts, better decisions and adopt more effective strategies. In the future, If I was to start up a business, I would definitely utilise models to assist in the operation. 

A challenge I faced this week was the formation of groups. Since it was an online learning process, it was difficult to form groups with people I do not know. However, groups were randomly chosen and we created a group chat to get to know each other. 

Overall, my understanding of models was enhanced. I have come to understand how models are capable of embedding data that we humans lack and models are used very often than we realise.  As such, it is used in school to explain data, predict, explore possibilities and communicate ideas. When thinking about a problem, a lot of clarity can simply arise by going through the process of writing a model. Hence, putting models to use is key to understand human-centered complex systems. 

# Week 3: 9/03/21
From this content, I have embraced the concepts of modelling to make better decisions. By applying models in my decision making, I have created the potential for productivity in terms of challenging the behaviour of others, the decisions they make and then using this to make my own better decisions. The decisions people make can be rational, behavioural or rule-based. Within this, I have learnt there are a lot of dimensions and applying decisions models will allow me to gain insight into which choice makes me the happiest. Models to make decisions include the multi-criteria decision models, spatial choice Additionally, in this lesson we learnt the importance of time management and this was helpful not only for this subject but in our everyday lives.

For me, it was a completely new area of work and was very interesting to model how others behave. This modified the way I initially viewed the world as now I take in a deep aspect is modelling how people behave in different environments, their beliefs and emotions, how they have come to their decisions and predicting how people behave. For instance, this weeks lesson presented that any model thinking can be used to ideate various solutions to a given problem and it will minimise potential errors. When working individually and collaboratively to solve a problem, many ideas of various solutions arise. It will become difficult to narrow down all ideas into one simple idea. This will create room for potential errors.  Therefore, in this case, the many-model thinking approach can be taken, where we apply different models and reduce the risk of errors.

This theory showcased the useful aspects of modelling for predictions of how different people behave and identify underlying factors influencing it. The application and understanding of these models enhance the ability to have diverse assumptions on different interactions.


# Week 4: 16/03/21
This week we looked at representing human-centered complex systems. Initially, these models were all new to me but the learning of this context encouraged me to focus deeply on the positive and negative feedbacks to identify effects. As such a system dynamic model indicating negative feedback loops can limit the effectiveness of interventions. Further in the lesson, we got sent into a breakout room to create a stock-flow diagram on a scenario to model the spread of an infectious disease. This activity showcased how the methods of system dynamic models, network models and agent-based models are effective tools to develop a divergent and detailed perspective of how the world functions. Specifically, an agent-based model allowed me to study how agent behaviours are subject to rules and follow a systematic behaviour such as a flock of birds. Additionally, stock and flow and causal loop diagrams present how things relate, interconnect and impact each other. This contributed to my understanding of my assignment as we had to create a causal loop diagram to present our topic of ‘strategies to contain Covid-19’.  This learning relatively increased my understanding on the importance of models to make informed decisions through understanding the relationship of agents to each other. In relation to my assignment, my causal loops diagram illustrates the factors of effective public protective performance would indicate a less transmission spreading in the Covid-19 pandemic. 

# Week 5: 23/03/21 
In this week's module, we went through Aggregating decisions and behaviour. I have gained a deeper insight into how probability distribution models our world by obtaining estimates that a certain event may occur. These processes provided me with strategies to describe and forecast the probability of an event. To gain a better understanding of the topic, we worked in breakout rooms to do an agent-based modelling activity involving a book scenario to create a conceptual diagram. It enabled me to understand that agents themselves have attributes and methods that are ways in which they decide the rules that guide the instructions and interact with the environment. Consequently, the complex systems we are living in are represented through models. 

The studying of normal distribution and long-tailed distribution further enhanced the understanding of human behaviour and socio-technical systems. As such, the understanding of the simple and effective models of aggregation has enhanced my confidence level to make decisions especially in the future and make predictions. This knowledge of distributions is beneficial to me by knowing the knowledge that creates various distributions. For instance, with the existing data, I can construct a linear model to identify the significance of the factors like understanding the health effects of certain drugs.  Overall, I have learnt to view the world through normal distributions and the aggregation of action to define the characteristic of behaviours. 

The discussion board for this week details how to understand power laws through a TED talk - Geoff West and the Surprising Math of Cities and Corporations. This discussion raised the idea of why cities lived forever while companies have short lifetimes. The idea of this that I understand now and did not before is that cities and companies start similarly, full of innovation but over time the nature of corporate growth leads them to focus solely on exploiting their success and eventually they die out. From this, I have learnt that in my future careers, I would be more mindful of how companies can collapse and would address that by looking at long-term innovation for a continuous cycle of driving city activities such as providing jobs for growth. 

# Week 6: 30/03/21
In this weeks module, I have learnt how complex systems evolved. It has never come to the thought of how systems evolved but this lesson showcased various models. As such, the urn model allows us to distinguish between models that are oath dependent and those that the set of things matter (Phat dependent). It showcases the sequence of events affecting the long term. Moreover, I have gained insight into how models rely on convexity and concavity. As such an economic model theory would be useful in identifying how the business makes large profits and why some countries are rich and poor. Whereas, to understand the growth of a country or the economy, the basic growth model implies that growth can continue because innovation creates a multiplier effect. Conversely, to discover why countries don’t grow, utilising the model equation to apply in this case, depicts the assets and capitals as part of the growth levels. I now have a better understanding of the economy being a complex system, which evolves and would require continued innovation to grow. 

Additionally, the study of the SIR model became useful towards my assignment as my group and I are examining strategies to contain Covid-19. Of which, a SIR model examines the spread of diseases and enables researchers to forecast the spreads, people in contact, recovery level and other factors. The model is then able to imply which factor can result in differences such as reducing the transmission or increasing to make better impacting solutions. Furthermore, the learning of the Markov processes presented different context to use the model in.  It assists in determining the future state depends only on the current states rather than the events of the past. Hence for my future career, I can utilise the Markov Model in an organization to forecast the supply and demand in a human resource department. 

Although, with the heavily loaded content within one lesson, the in-class activity of assuming transition probabilities and modelling a discrete Markov chain was quite complex to attempt. However, the team members I got put into breakout rooms with helped complete the task. 

# Week 7: 13/04/21
 
This weeks content covers Complexity and emergent behaviours. From this, I have understood in depth the empirical phenomenon of segregation and peer effects through modelling the measures. The Axerod’s culture model analyses the emergence of culture. Through a set of coordination games with different behaviours, it outlines the notion of thick boundaries and can be utilised to determine why people near each other perform the same behaviours or differ by a lot. I have developed an understanding of a model of social learning, a replicator dynamics of which is carried out by observing the actions and others and resulting rewards they obtain and capture learning through observing the changes of probability. Relatively the various use of models can pull different information and determine which certain effect is the dominant one. 

In terms of our many-thinking model assignment, we have progressed and utilised the slides to assist us in the assignment that was due in week 8. However, we faced a couple of issues such as no one in the group being able to do coding. It was solved as I emailed our subject coordinator, of which we were offered a non-coding option. 
 
# Week 8: 20/04/21

In addition to last week, this week we continued Complexity and emergent behaviour and submitted the pre-submission. Despite the challenges, my group and I handled them appropriately. 

From this weeks content, I’ve learnt a Colonel Blotto game which was a good application to multiple settings. I personally would implement this application in the future such as in the process of hiring by having the applicants compete through their skills and determine which skills are worth hiring.  Another cooperation studied was the Prisoner’ Dilemma that can be applied in many situations to decision make and that two individuals making decisions in their self-interest cannot result in an optimal solution. It can be used in my daily life such as salary negotiating and buying a new car.  With our current interconnected and complex world, these models and games can determine that the outcome of self-interest do not align with the goals of society as a whole. The overall module enhanced the idea of how combining models can bring out the most effective solution and get a much richer experience of what is going on. 
